---
title: Why zksync2-swift
description: Benefits and Advantages of zksync2-swift
tags: ["zksync", "swift", "ethereum", "layer-2", "zero-knowledge rollups"]
---

The `zksync2-swift` SDK offers numerous benefits and advantages for developers looking to build efficient, secure, and
scalable blockchain applications within the Apple ecosystem. Here are some of the key reasons to choose `zksync2-swift`:

### Enhanced performance and scalability

- **Layer-2 scaling**: ZKsync 2.0 leverages layer-2 scaling technology, significantly reducing gas fees and
transaction latency compared to Ethereum's layer-1.
- **Zero-knowledge rollups**: By using zero-knowledge rollups, ZKsync can bundle multiple transactions into a single
batch, increasing throughput and reducing the load on the Ethereum network.

### Cost efficiency

- **Lower transaction costs**: ZKsync’s rollup technology drastically lowers transaction costs, making it more
affordable to execute smart contracts and perform transactions.
- **Optimized resource usage**: The SDK is designed to efficiently use resources, minimizing computational overhead
and maximizing application performance.

### Robust security

- **Ethereum-level security**: ZKsync inherits the security properties of Ethereum, ensuring that all transactions are
as secure as those on the main Ethereum chain.
- **Zero-knowledge proofs**: Transactions are verified using zero-knowledge proofs, providing strong cryptographic
guarantees without revealing transaction details.

### Developer-friendly API

- **Ease of use**: The `zksync2-swift` SDK provides a simple and intuitive API, making it easy for developers to
integrate ZKsync functionalities into their Swift applications.
- **Comprehensive documentation**: Detailed documentation and examples help developers quickly understand and utilize
the SDK’s capabilities.

### Versatile integration

- **Seamless Ethereum compatibility**: The SDK ensures compatibility with Ethereum, allowing developers to use
ZKsync’s features without changing their existing Ethereum-based workflows.
- **Flexible account management**: Features like account abstraction allow for more flexible account management and interaction.
