---
title: Introduction
description: Overview of the Client component in the ZKsync Era
tags: ["zksync", "client", "go", "sdk"]
---

The `Client` is a critical component that enables interaction with the ZKsync Era. It serves as a wrapper around the
ZKsync Era RPC API and supports `ethclient.Client` from the `geth` library, along with additional methods specific to
ZKsync Era.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-information-circle" color="blue"}
Since the `geth` library has the concept of a `Client`, not a `Provider`, the Go SDK for ZKsync Era also adopts the
concept of a `Client`, as opposed to using a Provider like in other ZKsync Era SDKs.
::

In code, the `Client` interface is composed of two main interfaces:

### `EthereumClient`

This interface provides Ethereum RPC methods on the ZKsync Era node, prefixed with `eth_`. It includes the same
methods as `ethclient.Client` from the `geth` library, ensuring compatibility with existing Ethereum tools and
workflows. Additionally, it has extra methods capable of handling EIP-712 transactions, which are essential for the
unique features of the ZKsync Era. The `EthereumClient` interface is designed to be compatible with
the `bind.ContractBackend` interface from `geth`, which enables support for smart contracts generated using
the `abigen` tool.

### `ZkSyncEraClient`

This interface provides the API methods specific to ZKsync Era, prefixed with `zks_`. These methods facilitate the
use of ZKsync Era’s unique features, such as account abstraction, custom fee systems, and other layer-2
functionalities. The `ZkSyncEraClient` interface ensures that developers can leverage all the capabilities of the
ZKsync Era blockchain efficiently.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
These interfaces are designed to make the SDK flexible and extensible.
::
