---
title: Introduction
description: A guide to Web3 Provider objects for ZKsync integration
tags: ["zksync", "web3", "provider", "integration"]
---

A Web3 Provider object provides application-layer access to underlying blockchain networks.

The [`zksync-ethers`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/zksync-ethers/v/5.0.0) library supports provider methods from
the [`ethers.js`](https://docs.ethers.io/v5/api/providers) library and supplies additional functionality.

Two providers are available:

- [`Provider`](/sdk/js/ethers/api/v5/provider/web3provider): Supplies the same functionality
as [`ethers.providers.JsonRpcProvider`](https://docs.ethers.org/v5/api/providers/jsonrpc-provider/#JsonRpcProvider) and
extends it with ZKsync-specific methods.
- [`Web3Provider`](/sdk/js/ethers/api/v5/provider/web3provider): Extends the ZKsync
Era [`Provider`](/sdk/js/ethers/api/v5/provider/providers) class to make it more compatible with Web3 wallets.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
Use the [`Web3Provider`](/sdk/js/ethers/api/v5/provider/web3provider) for browser integrations.
::

## Overview

A Web3 Provider is an abstraction used to interact with the blockchain network, allowing applications to send
transactions, query blockchain data, and listen to events. Providers serve as the bridge between the application and
the blockchain, ensuring smooth communication and functionality.

### `Provider`

The `Provider` class in `zksync-ethers` library extends the `ethers.providers.JsonRpcProvider` with additional
ZKsync-specific methods. This allows users to leverage the familiar ethers.js interface while accessing advanced
features specific to ZKsync.

#### Key features

- **JSON-RPC support**: Provides a robust and flexible interface to interact with the blockchain via JSON-RPC.
- **ZKsync methods**: Includes additional methods unique to ZKsync, enhancing functionality and integration capabilities.

### `Web3Provider`

The `Web3Provider` class extends the ZKsync Era `Provider` class to offer enhanced compatibility with Web3 wallets,
making it ideal for browser-based integrations. This provider ensures seamless interaction with wallet extensions like
MetaMask, enabling users to manage their accounts and sign transactions directly from the browser.

#### Key features

- **Web3 compatibility**: Integrates smoothly with popular Web3 wallets, ensuring user-friendly interactions.
- **Enhanced security**: Leverages the security features of Web3 wallets to manage private keys and sign transactions.
