---
title: Why zksync2-java
description: Benefits and Advantages of zksync2-java
tags: ["zksync", "java", "ethereum", "layer-2", "zero-knowledge rollups"]
---

Choosing the Java SDK for ZKSync opens up a plethora of opportunities for businesses and developers eager to explore
the next generation of blockchain applications.

Here are key reasons why `zksync2-java` is a valuable addition to your development toolkit:

### Seamless web3 integration

- **Built on web3j**: The library extends `web3j`, making it easy for developers familiar with Web3j to start using
ZkSync-specific features without a steep learning curve.
- **Standard and extended functionality**: It supports all standard Web3j functionalities while adding methods unique
to ZkSync Era, enabling more versatile blockchain interactions.

### ZkSync-specific enhancements

- **Layer 2 transactions**: Leverage the power of zk-rollups for low-cost, high-throughput transactions.
- **Advanced fee and gas estimation**: Precisely estimate transaction fees and gas usage with methods
like `estimateFee`, `estimateGas`, and `estimateGasL1`.
- **Comprehensive account and block management**: Retrieve detailed information about accounts, blocks, and
transactions on the ZkSync network.
- **Bridge contract access**: Easily interact with ZkSync Era bridge contracts for L1 to L2 operations.

### User-friendly design

- **Easy initialization**: Quickly set up your provider with minimal configuration.
- **Clear and concise API**: The library's API is designed for simplicity and ease of use, ensuring you can integrate
it into your projects with minimal effort.
