# Accounts: L1<->L2 Transactions

This section explores the methods which allow the
[account](/js/ethers/v6/accounts) to send transactions among both L1 to L2 networks.

If you want some background on how L1<->L2 interaction works on zkSync, go through the
[introduction](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/l1-l2-interop.html).

Full examples of actions below are available on the [getting started](/js/ethers/v6/getting-started) page.

## Deposit

`Wallet` and `L1Signer` objects provide a deposit workflow.
For more information, please refer to the method specification [`Deposit`](/js/ethers/v6/accounts#deposit).

For a complete example of how to execute the deposit workflow, take a look at the following:
[Deposit ETH and ERC20 token](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-examples/blob/main/js/src/01_deposit.ts).

## Request execute

`Wallet` and `L1Signer` objects provide an option to request execution of L2 transaction from L1. For more information,
please refer to the method specification [`requestExecute`](/js/ethers/v6/accounts#requestexecute).

## Base cost

`Wallet` and `L1Signer` objects provide an option to calculate base cost for L2 transaction. For more information,
please refer to the method specification [`getBaseCost`](/js/ethers/v6/accounts#getbasecost).

## Claim failed deposit

`Wallet` and `L1Signer` objects provide a claim fail deposit workflow. For more information,
please refer to the method specification [`claimFailedDeposit`](/js/ethers/v6/accounts#claimfaileddeposit).

## Finalize withdraw

`Wallet` and `L1Signer` objects provide a finalize withdraw workflow. For more information,
please refer to the method specification [`finalizeWithdrawal`](/js/ethers/v6/accounts#finalizewithdrawal).

## Withdrawal

`Wallet` and `Signer` objects provide a withdrawal workflow. For more information,
please refer to the method specification [`Deposit`](/js/ethers/v6/accounts#deposit).

For a complete example of how to execute the deposit workflow, take a look at the following:
[Withdraw ETH and ERC20 token](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-examples/blob/main/js/src/04_withdraw.ts).
