---
title: Overview
description: Explore the Web3.js plugin for ZKsync
tags: ["zksync", "sdks", "zksync era sdk", "ethereum", "era network", "web3.js", "web3.js plugin"]
links:
  - label: NPM
    to: https://www.npmjs.com/package/web3-plugin-zksync
    icon: simple-icons:npm
    target: _blank
---

## Web3.js plugin for ZKsync

The [Web3.js plugin for ZKsync](https://github.com/ChainSafe/web3-plugin-zksync) makes it easy for developers to
interact with the ZKsync Era network. See the comprehensive [API documentation](https://chainsafe.github.io/web3-plugin-zksync/)
for a full description of the plugin's capabilities.

## Documentation sections

Below, you’ll find sections that offer explanations for using the plugin:

::card-group
::card
---
title: Getting Started
icon: i-heroicons-rocket-launch
to: /js/web3js/getting-started
---
An introduction to setting up and using the Web3.js plugin with ZKsync.
::
::card
---
title: RPC Methods
icon: i-heroicons-cpu-chip
to: /js/web3js/rpc
---
A guide to the various RPC methods available in the plugin.
::
::card
---
title: Constants, Types, & Utilities
icon: i-heroicons-variable
to: /js/web3js/constants-types-utilities
---
Information on constants, types, and utility functions provided by the plugin.e.
::
::card
---
title: Wallet
icon: i-heroicons-wallet
to: /js/web3js/wallet
---
Details on wallet management and operations within the ZKsync network.
::
::card
---
title: Custom Transaction Data
icon: i-heroicons-document-text
to: /js/web3js/custom-data
---
Instructions on crafting custom transaction data for specific use cases.
::
::card
---
title: Paymaster
icon: i-heroicons-cog
to: /js/web3js/paymasters
---
An overview of paymasters and how they work within the plugin.
::
::card
---
title: Smart Contracts
icon: i-heroicons-document-duplicate
to: /js/web3js/contracts
---
Guidance on deploying and interacting with smart contracts.
::
::card
---
title: Smart Accounts
icon: i-heroicons-user-group
to: /js/web3js/smart-accounts
---
Insights into managing smart accounts on the ZKsync network.
::
::
