---
title: Introduction
description: A guide to BrowserProvider objects for ZKsync integration
tags: ["zksync", "ethereum", "zksync Era", "transactions", "provider"]
---

The `BrowserProvider` in `ethers.js` is a feature that allows web applications to interact with the Ethereum
blockchain directly from the browser using wallet extensions like MetaMask.

### Key features

1. **EIP-1193 Compatibility**: Ensures interoperability with various Ethereum wallets.
2. **Ease of Use**: Simplifies connection to Ethereum accounts and interaction with the blockchain.
3. **Standardized API**: Provides a common interface for blockchain operations, making dApp development more straightforward.

### Example Usage

```javascript
const provider = new ethers.BrowserProvider(window.ethereum);
const signer = await provider.getSigner();
console.log("Account:", await signer.getAddress());
```

### Additional library support

The [`zksync-ethers`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/zksync-ethers) library supports provider methods from
the [`ethers.js`](https://docs.ethers.io/v6/api/providers) library. It supplies additional functionality, enhancing
the capabilities of BrowserProvider for applications that interact with ZKsync, a Layer 2 scaling solution for Ethereum.

### Available providers

- **Provider**: Extends
[`ethers.JsonRpcProvider`](https://docs.ethers.org/v6/api/providers/jsonrpc/#about-jsonrpcProvider) with ZKsync-specific
methods.
- **BrowserProvider**: Extends the ZKsync Era `Provider` class for better compatibility with Web3 wallets.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
Use `BrowserProvider` for browser integrations.
::

### Overview

A Web3 Provider is an abstraction used to interact with the blockchain network, allowing applications to send
transactions, query blockchain data, and listen to events. Providers serve as the bridge between the application and
the blockchain, ensuring smooth communication and functionality.

### `Provider`

The `Provider` class in `zksync-ethers` library extends the `ethers.providers.JsonRpcProvider` with additional
ZKsync-specific methods. This allows users to leverage the familiar ethers.js interface while accessing advanced
features specific to ZKsync.

#### Key features

- **JSON-RPC support**: Provides a robust and flexible interface to interact with the blockchain via JSON-RPC.
- **ZKsync methods**: Includes additional methods unique to ZKsync, enhancing functionality and integration capabilities.

### `BrowserProvider`

The `BrowserProvider` class extends the ZKsync Era `Provider` class to offer enhanced compatibility with Web3 wallets,
making it ideal for browser-based integrations. This provider ensures seamless interaction with wallet extensions like
MetaMask, enabling users to manage their accounts and sign transactions directly from the browser.

#### Key features

- **Web3 compatibility**: Integrates smoothly with popular Web3 wallets, ensuring user-friendly interactions.
- **Enhanced security**: Leverages the security features of Web3 wallets to manage private keys and sign transactions.
