---
title: Account Management | L1-L2 Transactions
description: Methods for handling transactions between L1 and L2 networks with ZKsync.
tags: ["zksync", "l1 to l2 transactions", "cryptocurrency", "ethereum", "wallet"]
---

Learn the methods for managing accounts and facilitating transactions between Layer 1 (L1) and Layer 2 (L2)
networks using ZKsync.

For an overview of L1-L2 interactions on ZKsync, visit the [Developer Reference](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/l1-l2-interop.html).

The examples of the following actions can be found on the [getting started](/sdk/js/ethers/v6/getting-started) page.

## Deposit

The `Wallet` and `L1Signer` classes offer a seamless deposit workflow. Detailed information can be found in
the [`Deposit`](/sdk/js/ethers/v6/accounts#deposit-1) method specification.

For a guide on executing deposits, refer to this example: [Deposit ETH and ERC20 token](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-examples/blob/main/js/src/01_deposit.ts).

## Request execution

Using `Wallet` and `L1Signer`, you can request the execution of L2 transactions from L1. More details are available
in the [`requestExecute`](/sdk/js/ethers/v6/accounts#requestexecute) method specification.

## Calculate base cost

The `Wallet` and `L1Signer` classes also provide a way to calculate the base cost for L2 transactions. Refer to
the [`getBaseCost`](/sdk/js/ethers/v6/accounts#getbasecost) method specification for further details.

## Claim failed deposit

In the event of a failed deposit, `Wallet` and `L1Signer` offer a recovery workflow. More information can be
found in the [`claimFailedDeposit`](/sdk/js/ethers/v6/accounts#claimfaileddeposit) method specification.

## Finalize withdrawal

`Wallet` and `L1Signer` support the workflow for finalizing withdrawals. Detailed instructions are available
in the [`finalizeWithdrawal`](/sdk/js/ethers/v6/accounts#finalizewithdrawal) method specification.

## Withdraw

Both `Wallet` and `Signer` classes support withdrawal workflows. For more details, see
the [`Withdraw`](/sdk/js/ethers/v6/accounts#withdraw) method specification.

For a complete walkthrough on executing withdrawals, check out this example: [Withdraw ETH and ERC20 token](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-examples/blob/main/js/src/04_withdraw.ts).
