---
title: Why zksync2-python
description: Benefits and features of zksync2-python for ZKsync Era.
tags: ["zksync", "ethers", "sdk", "python"]
---

### Easy integration

The `zksync2-python` integrates seamlessly with your existing Python projects. Its interface is similar to the
popular [web3.py](https://web3py.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html) library, making it easy for developers
familiar with Ethereum development to get started quickly.

### Comprehensive functionality

The SDK gives you access to all the unique features of ZKsync Era, including:

- **Account abstraction**: Deploy and manage smart contracts with extra fields that standard Ethereum transactions
don't have.
- **Optimized performance**: Benefit from ZKsync's scalability and speed improvements directly through the SDK.

### Consistent API

The SDK maintains a consistent API with `web3.py`, ensuring a smooth transition and reducing the learning curve. Most
objects exported by `zksync2` inherit from `web3.py` objects, with only necessary modifications.

### Strong community support

As part of the ZKsync ecosystem, the Python SDK benefits from strong [community support](https://join.zksync.dev/)
and regular updates. You can
find extensive documentation, examples, and a helpful community ready to assist you.

### Security and reliability

The ZKsync Python SDK is built with security and reliability in mind. It leverages ZKsync’s robust infrastructure to
ensure secure and reliable transactions and interactions with the blockchain.

### Active development

The SDK is actively developed and maintained by the ZKsync team. This ensures that you always have access to the
latest features and improvements, keeping your projects up to date with the evolving blockchain landscape.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
Explore the [Python SDK documentation](/python/guides/getting-started) to get started and take advantage of all the
features and benefits it offers.
::
