---
title: Accounts | L1<->L2 Transactions
description:
---

This section explores the methods which allow the [account](/go/accounts) to send transactions among both L1 to L2 networks.

If you want some background on how L1<->L2 interaction works on zkSync, go through the
[introduction](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/l1-l2-interoperability).

Full examples of actions below are available on the [getting started](/go/getting-started) page.

## Deposit

`WalletL1` and `Wallet` objects provide a deposit workflow. For more information, please refer to the method
specification [`Deposit`](/go/accounts#deposit).

For a comprehensive example demonstrating the deposit workflow, refer to the following:

- [Deposit ETH](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-examples/blob/main/go/01_deposit.go).
- [Deposit ERC20 tokens](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-examples/blob/main/go/05_deposit_token.go).

## Request execute

`WalletL1` and `Wallet` objects provide an option to request execution of L2 transaction from L1.
For more information, please refer to the method specification [`RequestExecute`](/go/accounts#requestexecute).

## Base cost

`WalletL1` and `Wallet` objects provide an option to calculate base cost for L2 transaction.
For more information, please refer to the method specification [`BaseCost`](/go/accounts#basecost).

## Claim failed deposit

`WalletL1` and `Wallet` objects provide a claim fail deposit workflow. For more information,
please refer to the method specification [`ClaimFailedDeposit`](/go/accounts#claimfaileddeposit).

## Finalize withdraw

`WalletL1` and `Wallet` objects provide a finalize withdraw workflow. For more information,
please refer to the method specification [`FinalizeWithdraw`](/go/accounts#finalizewithdraw).

## Withdrawal

`WalletL2` and `Wallet` objects provide a withdrawal workflow. For more information,
please refer to the method specification [`Deposit`](/go/accounts#deposit).

For a complete example of how to execute the deposit workflow, take a look at the following:

- [Withdraw ETH](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-examples/blob/main/go/03_withdraw.go).
- [Withdraw ERC20 token](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-examples/blob/main/go/07_withdraw_token.go).
