---
title: Types and Interfaces
description: Definitions and interfaces used in ZKsync Era.
tags: ["zksync", "types", "interfaces", "ethereum", "blockchain"]
---

## `AccountAbstractionVersion`

Enumerated list of account abstraction versions.

::collapsible

- None = `0` - Used for contracts that are not accounts.
- Version1 = `1` - Used for contracts that are accounts.
::

## `AccountNonceOrdering`

Enumerated list of account nonce ordering formats.

::collapsible

- Sequential = `0` - Nonces should be ordered in the same way as in externally owned accounts (EOAs).
  This means, for instance, that the operator will always wait for a transaction with nonce `X`
  before processing a transaction with nonce `X+1`.
- Arbitrary = `1` - Nonces can be ordered in arbitrary order.
::

## `Address`

0x-prefixed, hex-encoded, Ethereum account address as string.

## `ApprovalBasedPaymasterInput`

Interface representation of approval based paymaster input.

::collapsible

- `type`: `'ApprovalBased'` - The type of the paymaster input.
- `token`: `Address` - The address of the token to be approved.
- `minimalAllowance`: `BigNumber` - The minimum allowance required for the token approval.
- `innerInput`: `BytesLike`-  The additional input data.;
::

## `BalancesMap`

Type defining a map object containing accounts and their balances.

- `{ [key: string]`: `BigNumber }`

## `BatchDetails`

Interface representation of batch details.

::collapsible

- `number`: `number` - L1 batch number.
- `timestamp`: `number`- Unix timestamp when the batch was processed.
- `l1TxCount`: `number` - Number of L1 transactions included in the batch.
- `l2TxCount`: `number` -  Number of L2 transactions associated with this batch.
- `rootHash?`: `string` - Root hash of the state after processing the batch.
- `status`: `string` - Current status of the batch (e.g., verified).
- `commitTxHash?`: `string` - Transaction hash of the commit operation on L1.
- `committedAt?`: `Date`- Timestamp when the block was committed on L1.
- `proveTxHash?`: `string` - Transaction hash of the proof submission on L1.
- `provenAt?`: `Date` - Timestamp when the proof was submitted on L1.
- `executeTxHash?`: `string` - Transaction hash of the execution on L1.
- `executedAt?`: `Date` - Timestamp when the block execution was completed on L1.
- `l1GasPrice`: `number` - L1 gas price at the time of the block's execution.
- `l2FairGasPrice`: `number` - Fair gas price on L2 at the time of the block's execution.
- `baseSystemContractsHashes`: `object` - Hashes of the base system contracts involved in the batch.
::

## `Block`

Interface representation of block that extends the Ethers
[`providers.Block`](https://docs.ethers.org/v5/api/providers/types/#providers-Block)
definition with additional fields.

::collapsible

- `l1BatchNumber`: `number` - The batch number on L1.
- `l1BatchTimestamp`: `number` - The timestamp of the batch on L1.
::

## `BlockDetails`

Interface representation of block details.

::collapsible

- `number`: `number` -  Number of the block.
- `timestamp`: `number` - Unix timestamp when the block was committed.
- `l1BatchNumber`: `number` - Corresponding L1 batch number.
- `l1TxCount`: `number` -  Number of L1 transactions included in the block.
- `l2TxCount`: `number` - Number of L2 transactions included in the block.
- `rootHash?`: `string` - Root hash of the block's state after execution.
- `status`: `string` - Current status of the block (e.g., verified, executed).
- `commitTxHash?`: `string` - Transaction hash of the commit operation on L1.
- `committedAt?`: `Date` - Timestamp when the block was committed on L1.
- `proveTxHash?`: `string` - Transaction hash of the proof submission on L1.
- `provenAt?`: `Date` - Timestamp when the proof was submitted on L1.
- `executeTxHash?`: `string` - Transaction hash of the execution on L1.
- `executedAt?`: `Date` - Timestamp when the block execution was completed on L1.
- `l1GasPrice`: `number` - L1 gas price at the time of the block's execution.
- `l2FairGasPrice`: `number` - Fair gas price on L2 at the time of the block's execution.
- `baseSystemContractsHashes`: `object` - A collection of hashes for the base system contracts involved in the block.
- `operatorAddress`: `string` - Address of the operator who committed the block.
- `protocolVersion`: `string` - version of the ZKsync protocol the block was committed under.
::

## `BlockTag`

Pipe-delimited list of block labels that includes block number in binary and hex plus block statuses.

::collapsible

- `number`
- `string` // hex representation of block number
- `committed`
- `finalized`
- `latest`
- `earliest`
- `pending`
::

## `BlockWithTransaction`

Interface representation of block with transaction(s) that extends the Ethers `BlockWithTransactions`
definition with additional fields.

::collapsible

- `l1BatchNumber`: `number` - The batch number on L1.
- `l1BatchTimestamp`: `number` -  The timestamp of the batch on L1.
- `transactions`: `Array<TransactionResponse>` - The transactions that are part of the block.
::

## `ContractAccountInfo`

Interface representation for contract account information containing information on account abstraction
version and nonce ordering format.

::collapsible

- `supportedAAVersion`: `AccountAbstractionVersion` - The supported account abstraction version.
- `nonceOrdering`: `AccountNonceOrdering` - The nonce ordering format.
::

## `DeploymentInfo`

Interface representation of deployment information.

::collapsible

- `sender`: `Address` -  The account responsible for deployment.
- `bytecodeHash`: `string` - The hash of the contract/account bytecode.
- `deployedAddress`: `Address` -  The deployed address of the contract/address.
::

## `DeploymentType`

Pipe-delimited choice of two deployment types that support all `create2` variants.

::collapsible

- `create`
- `createAccount`
::

## `Eip712Meta`

Contains EIP712 transaction metadata.

::collapsible

- `gasPerPubdata?`: `BigNumberish` - The maximum amount of gas the user is willing to pay for a single byte of pubdata.
- `factoryDeps?`: `BytesLike[]` - An array of bytes containing the bytecode of the contract being deployed and any
related contracts it can deploy.
- `customSignature?`: `BytesLike` - Custom signature used for cases where the signer's account is not an EOA.
- `paymasterParams?`: `PaymasterParams` - Parameters for configuring the custom paymaster for the transaction.
::

## `EthereumSignature`

Interface representation of an Ethereum signature.

::collapsible

- `v`: `number` - The recovery id.
- `r`: `BytesLike` - The "r" value of the signature.
- `s`: `BytesLike` - The "s" value of the signature.
::

## `EventFilter`

Interface representation of event filter which allows efficiently filtering logs (also known as events)
using bloom filters included within blocks.

::collapsible

- `topics?`: `Array<string | Array<string> | null>` - An array representing the structure to define bloom-filter queries.
- `address?`: `Address | Array<Address>` - The address or addresses from which logs are filtered.
- `fromBlock?`: `BlockTag` - The block number or block tag representing the starting block for filtering logs.
- `toBlock?`: `BlockTag` - The block number or block tag representing the ending block for filtering logs.
- `blockHash?`: `string` - The hash of the block from which logs are filtered.
::

## `Fee`

Interface representation of transaction fee parameters.

::collapsible

- `gasLimit`: `BigNumber` - The maximum amount of gas that can be used.
- `gasPerPubdataLimit`: `BigNumber` - The gas limit per unit of public data.
- `maxPriorityFeePerGas`: `BigNumber` - The maximum priority fee per unit of gas to incentivize miners.
- `maxFeePerGas`: `BigNumber` - The maximum fee per unit of gas that the sender is willing to pay.
::

## `FeeParams`

Interface representation of fee parameter configuration.

::collapsible

- `V2`: - Fee parameter configuration for the current version of the ZKsync protocol.
  - `config`: - Settings related to transaction fee computation.
    - `minimal_l2_gas_price`: `BigNumber` - Minimal gas price on L2.
    - `compute_overhead_part`: `BigNumber` - Compute overhead part in fee calculation.
    - `pubdata_overhead_part`: `BigNumber` - Public data overhead part in fee calculation.
    - `batch_overhead_l1_gas`: `BigNumber` - Overhead in L1 gas for a batch of transactions.
    - `max_gas_per_batch`: `BigNumber` - Maximum gas allowed per batch.
    - `max_pubdata_per_batch`: `BigNumber` - Maximum amount of public data allowed per batch.
  - `l1_gas_price`: `BigNumber` - Current L1 gas price.
  - `l1_pubdata_price`: `BigNumber` - Price of storing public data on L1.
::

## `FinalizeWithdrawalParams`

Interface representation of finalize withdrawal parameters.
::collapsible

- `l1BatchNumber`: `number | null` - The L2 batch number where the withdrawal was processed.
- `l2MessageIndex`: `number` - The position in the L2 logs Merkle tree of the l2Log that was sent with the message.
- `l2TxNumberInBlock`: `number | null` - The L2 transaction number in the batch, in which the log was sent.
- `message`: `any` - The L2 withdraw data, stored in an L2 -> L1 message.
- `sender`: `string` - The L2 address which sent the log.
- `proof`: `string[]` - The Merkle proof of the inclusion L2 -> L1 message about withdrawal initialization.
::

## `FullDepositFee`

Interface representation of full deposit fee containing fees for both L1 and L2 transactions.
::collapsible

- `maxFeePerGas?`: `BigNumber` - The maximum fee per gas for L1 transaction.
- `maxPriorityFeePerGas?`: `BigNumber` - The maximum priority fee per gas for L1 transaction.
- `gasPrice?`: `BigNumber` - The gas price for L2 transaction.
- `baseCost`: `BigNumber` - The base cost of the deposit transaction on L2.
- `l1GasLimit`: `BigNumber` - The gas limit for L1 transaction.
- `l2GasLimit`: `BigNumber` - The gas limit for L2 transaction.
::

## `GeneralPaymasterInput`

Interface representation of general paymaster input.

::collapsible

- `type`: `'General'` - The type of the paymaster input.
- `innerInput`: `BytesLike` - The additional input data.
::

## `L2ToL1Log`

Interface representation of a layer 2 to layer 1 transaction log.
::collapsible

- `blockNumber`: `number` - The block number.
- `blockHash`: `string` - The block hash.
- `l1BatchNumber`: `number` - The batch number on L1.
- `transactionIndex`: `number` - The L2 transaction number in a block, in which the log was sent.
- `transactionLogIndex`: `number` - The transaction log index.
- `txIndexInL1Batch?`: `number` - The transaction index in L1 batch.
- `shardId`: `number` - The shard identifier, 0 - rollup, 1 - porter.
- `isService`: `boolean` - A boolean flag that is part of the log along with `key`, `value`, and `sender` address.
  This field is required formally but does not have any special meaning.
- `sender`: `string`- The L2 address which sent the log.
- `key`: `string` -  The 32 bytes of information that was sent in the log.
- `value`: `string` - The 32 bytes of information that was sent in the log.
- `transactionHash`: `string` - The transaction hash.
- `logIndex`: `number` - The log index.
::

## `Log`

Interface representation of log that extends Ethers
[`providers.Log`](https://docs.ethers.org/v5/api/providers/types/#providers-Log)
and supplies the layer 1 batch number.

- `l1BatchNumber`: `number` - The batch number on L1.

## `LogProof`

Interface representation of message proof.

::collapsible

- `id`: `number` - Identifier of the log within the transaction.
- `proof`: `string[]` - Each element represents a piece of the proof for the specified log.
- `root`: `string` - Root hash of the proof, anchoring it to a specific state in the blockchain.
::

## `MessageProof`

Interface representation of message proof.
::collapsible

- `id`: `number` - Identifier of the log within the transaction.
- `proof`: `string[]` - Each element represents a piece of the proof for the specified log.
- `root`: `string` - Root hash of the proof, anchoring it to a specific state in the blockchain.
::

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle" color="amber"}
Deprecated in favor of `[LogProof](#logproof)`
::

## `Network`

Enumerated list of networks and their ids.

::collapsible

- Mainnet = `1`
- Ropsten = `3`
- Rinkeby = `4`
- Sepolia = `6`,
- localhost = `9`,
- EraTestNode = `10`,
::

## `PaymasterInput`

Type definition for a paymaster input specified as either approval based or general.

::collapsible

- `ApprovalBasedPaymasterInput` | `GeneralPaymasterInput`
::

## `PaymasterParams`

Type defining a paymaster by address and the bytestream input.

::collapsible

- `paymaster`: `Address` - The address of the paymaster.
- `paymasterInput`: `BytesLike` - The bytestream input for the paymaster.
::

## `PayloadSigner`

Signs various types of payloads, optionally using a some kind of secret.

::collapsible

- `payload`: `BytesLike` - The payload that needs to be sign.
- `secret`: `any` - The secret used for signing the `payload`.
- `provider` `null | Provider` -  The provider is used to fetch data from the network if it is required for signing.
::

## `PriorityOpResponse`

Interface representation of priority op response that extends[`TransactionResponse`](#transactionresponse)
and adds a function that waits to commit a layer 1 transaction, including when given on optional confirmation number.

- `waitL1Commit(confirmation?: number)`: `Promise<providers.TransactionReceipt>` - Waits for the L1 transaction to be committed,
including waiting for the specified number of confirmations.

## `PriorityOpTree`

Enumerated list of priority operation tree types.

::collapsible

- Full = `0`,
- Rollup = `1`,
::

## `PriorityQueueType`

Enumerated list of priority queue types.

::collapsible

- Deque = `0`,
- HeapBuffer = `1`,
- Heap = `2`,
::

## `ProtocolVersion`

Interface representation of protocol version.

::collapsible

- `version_id`: `number` - Protocol version ID.
- `timestamp`: `number` - Unix timestamp of the version's activation.
- `verification_keys_hashes`: `object` - Contains the hashes of various verification keys used in the protocol.
- `base_system_contracts`: `object` - Addresses of the base system contracts.
- `l2_system_upgrade_tx_hash`: `string | null` - Hash of the transaction used for the system upgrade, if any.
::

## `RawBlockTransaction`

Interface representation of raw block with transactions.

::collapsible

- `common_data`: - General information about the L2 transaction.
  - `L2`:
    - `nonce`: `number`;
    - `fee`:
      - `gas_limit`: `BigNumber`;
      - `max_fee_per_gas`: `BigNumber`;
      - `max_priority_fee_per_gas`: `BigNumber`;
      - `gas_per_pubdata_limit`: `BigNumber`;
    - `initiatorAddress`: `Address`;
    - `signature`: `Uint8Array`;
    - `transactionType`: `string`;
    - `input`
      - `hash`: `string`;
      - `data`: `Uint8Array`;
    - `paymasterParams`:
      - `paymaster`: `Address`;
      - `paymasterInput`: `Uint8Array`;
- `execute`: - Details regarding the execution of the transaction.
  - `calldata`: `string`;
  - `contractAddress`: `Address`;
  - `factoryDeps`: `BytesLike[]`;
  - `value`: `BigNumber`;
- `received_timestamp_ms`: `number` - Timestamp when the transaction was received, in milliseconds.
- `raw_bytes`: `string` -  Raw bytes of the transaction as a hexadecimal string.
::

## `Signature`

0x-prefixed, hex-encoded, ECDSA signature as string.

## `SmartAccountSigner`

Encapsulates the required input parameters for creating a signer for [`SmartAccount`](/sdk/js/ethers/v5/accounts#smartaccount).

::collapsible

- `address`: `string` - Address to which the `SmartAccount` is bound.
- `secret`: `any` - Secret in any form that can be used for signing different payloads.
- `payloadSigner`: `PayloadSigner` - Custom method for signing different payloads.
- `transactionBuilder`: `TransactionBuilder` - Custom method for populating transaction requests.
::

## `StorageProof`

Interface representation of Merkle proofs for storage values.

::collapsible

- `address`: `string` - Account address associated with the storage proofs.
- `storageProof` (Array): - Array of objects, each representing a storage proof for the requested keys.
  - `key`: `string` - Storage key for which the proof is provided.
  - `value`: `string` - Value stored in the specified storage key at the time of the specified l1BatchNumber.
  - `index`: `number` - A 1-based index representing the position of the tree entry within the Merkle tree.
    This index is used to help reconstruct the Merkle path during verification.
  - `proof`: `string[]` - An array of 32-byte hashes that constitute the Merkle path from the leaf node
    (representing the storage key-value pair) to the root of the Merkle tree.
::

## `Token`

Interface representation of bridged token.

::collapsible

- `l1Address`: `Address` - Token address on L1.
- `l2Address`: `Address` - Token address on L2.
- `name`: `string` - Token name.
- `symbol`: `string` - Token symbol.
- `decimals`: `number` - Token decimals.
::

## `TransactionBuilder`

Populates missing fields in a transaction with default values.

::collapsible

- `transaction`: `TransactionRequest` - The transaction that needs to be populated.
- `secret`: `any` - The secret used for populating the transaction.
- `provider`: `null | Provider` - The provider is used to fetch data from the network if it is required for signing.
::

## `TransactionDetails`

Interface representation of transaction details.

::collapsible

- `isL1Originated`: `boolean` - Indicates whether the transaction originated on Layer 1.
- `status`: `string` - Current status of the transaction (e.g., verified).
- `fee`: `BigNumberish` - Transaction fee.
- `gasPerPubdata`: `BigNumberish` - Gas amount per unit of public data for this transaction.
- `initiatorAddress`: `Address` - Address of the transaction initiator.
- `receivedAt`: `Date` - Timestamp when the transaction was received.
- `ethCommitTxHash?`: `string` - Transaction hash of the commit operation.
- `ethProveTxHash?`: `string` - Transaction hash of the proof submission.
- `ethExecuteTxHash?`: `string` - Transaction hash of the execution.
::

## `TransactionReceipt`

Interface representation of transaction receipt that extends from Ethers
[`providers.TransactionReceipt`](https://docs.ethers.org/v5/api/providers/types/#providers-TransactionReceipt)
with additional fields.

::collapsible

- `l1BatchNumber`: `number` - The batch number on the L1 network.
- `l1BatchTxIndex`: `number` - The transaction index within the batch on the L1 network.
- `logs`: `Array<Log>` - All logs included in the transaction receipt.
- `l2ToL1Logs`: `Array<L2ToL1Log>` - The logs of L2 to L1 messages.
::

## `TransactionRequest`

Interface representation of transaction request that extends from Ethers
[`providers.TransactionRequest`](https://docs.ethers.org/v5/api/providers/types/#providers-TransactionRequest)
which adds an optional field for EIP-712 transactions.

- `customData?`: `Eip712Meta` - The custom data for EIP712 transaction metadata.

## `TransactionResponse`

Interface representation of transaction response that extends from Ethers
[`providers.TransactionResponse`](https://docs.ethers.org/v5/api/providers/types/#providers-TransactionResponse)
with additional fields.

::collapsible

- `l1BatchNumber`: `number` - The batch number on the L1 network.
- `l1BatchTxIndex`: `number` - The transaction index within the batch on the L1 network.
- `wait()`: `Promise<TransactionReceipt>` - Waits for transaction to be mined.
- `waitFinalize()`: `Promise<TransactionReceipt>` - Waits for transaction to be finalized.
::

## `TransactionStatus`

Enumerated list of transaction statuses.

::collapsible

- NotFound = `not-found` - Transaction not found.
- Processing = `processing` -  Transaction is processing.
- Committed = `committed` - Transaction has been committed.
- Finalized = `finalized` - Transaction has been finalized.
::

## `TransactionWithDetailedOutput`

Interface representation of transaction with detailed output.

::collapsible

- `transactionHash`: `string` - Transaction hash.
- `storageLogs`: `Array<object>` - Storage slots
- `events`: `Array<event>` - Generated events.
::
