---
title: L1<->L2 Transactions
description: Methods to facilitate transactions between L1 and L2 networks
tags: ["zksync", "l1", "l2", "transactions", "python", "sdk"]
---

This section explores the methods which allow the [account](/sdk/python/api/accounts/wallet)
classes to send transactions from L1 to L2.

If you want to get some background on how L1->L2 interaction works on ZKsync Era, go through the
[introduction](https://docs.zksync.io/build/developer-reference/l1-l2-interoperability).

Full examples of actions below are available on the getting started page.

## Deposit

`Wallet` object provides a deposit workflow. For more information, please refer to the
method specification [`Deposit`](/sdk/python/api/accounts/wallet#deposit).

For a complete example of how to execute the deposit workflow, take a look at the following:
[Deposit ETH and ERC20 token](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-examples/blob/main/python/01_deposit.py).

## Request execute

`Wallet` and `L1Signer` objects provide an option to request execution of L2 transaction from L1.
For more information, please refer to the method specification [`request_execute`](/sdk/python/api/accounts/wallet#requestexecute).

## Base cost

`Wallet` object provides an option to calculate base cost for L2 transaction. For more information, please refer to the
method specification [`getBaseCost`](/sdk/python/api/accounts/wallet#getbasecost).

## Claim failed deposit

`Wallet` object provides a claim fail deposit workflow. For more information, please refer to the method specification
[`claimFailedDeposit`](/sdk/python/api/accounts/wallet#claimfaileddeposit).

## Finalize withdraw

`Wallet` object provides a finalize withdraw workflow. For more information, please refer to the method specification
[`finalizeWithdrawal`](/sdk/python/api/accounts/wallet#finalizewithdrawal).

## Withdrawal

`Wallet` object provides a withdrawal workflow. For more information, please refer to the method specification [`Deposit`](/sdk/python/api/accounts/wallet#deposit).

For a complete example of how to execute the deposit workflow, take a look at the following:
[Withdraw ETH and ERC20 token](https://github.com/zksync-sdk/zksync2-examples/blob/main/python/09_withdrawal.py).
