---
title: Why zksync2-go
description: Benefits and Advantages of using `zksync2-go`
tags: ["zksync", "zksync2-go", "ethereum", "layer-2", "zero-knowledge rollups", "go library"]
---

Choosing the right tools and libraries for your blockchain project is crucial. `zksync2-go` offers a robust and
efficient solution for developers looking to leverage the benefits of ZKsync within their Go applications.

## Key advantages of `zksync2-go`

### 1. High performance and scalability

- **Layer-2 scaling**: Using ZKsync's layer-2 technology, `zksync2-go` significantly increases transaction
throughput, allowing your applications to handle more transactions per second.
- **Reduced latency**: Transactions are processed off-chain and then batched together for on-chain validation,
minimizing the delays associated with on-chain processing.

### 2. Cost efficiency

- **Lower fees**: Off-chain processing dramatically reduces transaction fees compared to traditional on-chain
transactions, making it cost-effective for developers and users.
- **Optimized resource usage**: Efficiently manages computational resources, reducing the overall cost of running
blockchain applications.

### 3. Security and reliability

- **Zero-knowledge proofs**: Ensures transaction integrity and privacy through zero-knowledge proofs, providing high security.
- **Trusted infrastructure**: Built on the reliable and proven ZKsync infrastructure, `zksync2-go` inherits its
security features and robustness.

### 4. Developer-friendly

- **Easy integration**: Provides a straightforward API that simplifies the integration of ZKsync functionality into Go applications.
- **Comprehensive documentation**: Offers detailed guides, examples, and API references to help developers start
quickly and efficiently.
- **Active Community and Support**: Benefit from an active community of developers and timely support from the
maintainers of `zksync2-go`.

### 5. Interoperability

- **Ethereum Compatibility**: Fully compatible with existing Ethereum tools and infrastructure, ensuring seamless
integration with other parts of the Ethereum ecosystem.
- **Future-Proof**: Designed to stay up-to-date with the latest advancements in the ZKsync protocol and the broader
blockchain landscape.
