---
title: Introduction
description: Guide to BrowserProvider objects for ZKsync integration
tags: ["zksync", "ethereum", "zksync Era", "transactions", "provider"]
---

The `BrowserProvider` in `ethers.js` lets web applications interact with the Ethereum blockchain directly from the
browser using wallet extensions like MetaMask.

### Example usage

```javascript
const provider = new ethers.BrowserProvider(window.ethereum);
const signer = await provider.getSigner();
console.log("Account:", await signer.getAddress());
```

### Additional library support

The [`zksync-ethers`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/zksync-ethers) library supports provider methods from
the [`ethers.js`](https://docs.ethers.io/v6/api/providers) library. It adds functionality, enhancing BrowserProvider
for applications interacting with ZKsync, a Layer 2 scaling solution for Ethereum.

### Available providers

- **Provider**: Extends
[`ethers.JsonRpcProvider`](https://docs.ethers.org/v6/api/providers/jsonrpc/#about-jsonrpcProvider) with ZKsync-specific
methods.
- **BrowserProvider**: Extends the ZKsync Era `Provider` class for better compatibility with Web3 wallets.

::callout{icon="i-heroicons-light-bulb"}
Use `BrowserProvider` for browser integrations.
::

### `Provider`

The `Provider` class in `zksync-ethers` library extends the `ethers.providers.JsonRpcProvider` with additional
ZKsync-specific methods. This lets users leverage the familiar ethers.js interface while accessing advanced features
specific to ZKsync.

### `BrowserProvider`

The `BrowserProvider` class extends the ZKsync Era `Provider` class to offer enhanced compatibility with Web3 wallets,
making it ideal for browser-based integrations. This provider ensures seamless interaction with wallet extensions like
MetaMask, enabling users to manage their accounts and sign transactions directly from the browser.
