---
title: Why zksync-ethers
description: Benefits and features of the zksync-ethers for ZKsync Era.
tags: ["zksync", "ethers", "sdk", "javascript", "ethereum"]
---

### Problem

To provide easy access to all the features of ZKsync Era, the `zksync-ethers` JavaScript SDK was created with an
interface very similar to [ethers](https://docs.ethers.io/v6/). In fact, `ethers` is a peer dependency of our library,
and most of the objects exported by `zksync-ethers` (e.g., `Wallet`, `Provider`, etc.) inherit from the
corresponding `ethers` objects and override only the fields that need to be changed.

The library is designed so that after replacing `ethers` with `zksync-ethers`, most client applications will work out
of the box.

### Developer Experience

The `zksync-ethers` SDK offers an enhanced developer experience by closely mirroring the interface and usage patterns
of `ethers`, making it easy for developers familiar with `ethers` to transition. This seamless integration means
that interacting with the ZKsync Era blockchain is straightforward and intuitive, reducing the learning curve and
increasing productivity. Developers can leverage the extensive `ethers` documentation and community support while
benefiting from the unique features of the ZKsync Era.

### Stability

The `zksync-ethers` SDK is rigorously tested and backed by comprehensive documentation, ensuring a stable and reliable
user experience. Each feature and functionality is covered by tests, and detailed guides are available to assist
developers in troubleshooting and maximizing the potential of the SDK. This focus on stability and support helps
developers confidently build and deploy applications on the ZKsync Era blockchain.

### Extensibility

The `zksync-ethers` SDK is designed with extensibility in mind. The architecture allows for easy integration of new
features and improvements, ensuring compatibility with future advancements in ZKsync and other zk-rollup
technologies. The SDK is regularly updated to incorporate the latest developments, providing developers with a
powerful and flexible tool for building next-generation blockchain applications.

Explore the [zksync-ethers documentation](https://docs.zksync.io/) to get started and take advantage of its features and
benefits.
