---
title: "FAQ"
description: "Find answers to the most commonly asked questions about the ZKsync SDKs"
tags: ["zksync", "sdks", "zksync era sdk", "ethereum", "era network", "faq"]
navigation: false
---

If you have any questions about how to get started or about the specific features of the SDK, you’re likely to
find the answers here.

### What is ZKsync Era?
ZKsync Era is a Layer 2 scaling solution for Ethereum, using zk-rollup technology to provide scalable and low-cost
transactions while maintaining the security and trust of the Ethereum blockchain.

### What are ZKsync Era SDKs?
ZKsync Era SDKs are toolkits designed to help developers build decentralized applications (dApps) on the ZKsync
Era network. They provide the necessary libraries and tools to interact with ZKsync.

### How do I get started with ZKsync Era SDKs?
You can start by visiting the official ZKsync documentation, which provides comprehensive guides, tutorials, and API
references to help you begin building dApps on ZKsync Era.

### What types of dApps can be built using ZKsync Era SDKs?
ZKsync Era SDKs can be used to build a variety of dApps, including DeFi protocols, NFT marketplaces, gaming
applications, and more, leveraging Ethereum smart contract capabilities.

### Can ZKsync Era be used for NFT applications?
Yes, ZKsync Era supports the ERC-721 standard, enabling the development of NFT applications on its platform.

### How does ZKsync Era handle data availability?
ZKsync Era uses off-chain storage for most data, with periodic updates and validity proofs submitted to the Ethereum
mainnet to ensure data availability and security.
