---
title: Troubleshooting
description: Troubleshooting guide for ZKsync SDKs
tags: ["zksync", "sdks", "zksync era sdk", "ethereum", "era network", "troubleshooting"]
navigation: false
---

Whether you’re facing integration challenges, encountering unexpected errors, or need clarity on certain
functionalities, here are detailed solutions and best practices to ensure a smooth development experience.

### JavaScript SDK

If you encounter issues using the JavaScript SDK during the installation, refer to the troubleshooting steps:

1. **Network selection**: Ensure you are using the Layer 2 (L2) network instead of Layer 1 (L1) Sepolia. The
correct endpoint for the L2 network is: [ZKsync Sepolia Explorer](%%zk_testnet_block_explorer_url%%/).

2. **Transaction hash and block tag**: Use the correct transaction hash and block tag when fetching transaction details.

3. **Hardhat Installation and Module Issues in V5**: If you encounter issues with Hardhat, such as missing modules or
deprecation warnings during installation, follow these steps to troubleshoot and resolve the problems.

#### Step 1: Install the Missing Module
You must install the required package if an error indicates a missing
module (e.g., `@nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox`). Run the following command in your project directory:

```sh
npm install @nomicfoundation/hardhat-toolbox
```

#### Step 2: Address Deprecation Warnings
During installation, you might see deprecation warnings. These warnings indicate that some packages are outdated but
do not necessarily prevent your project from running. You can address them by updating the respective packages. However,
these warnings can be ignored if they do not cause functional issues.

#### Step 3: Run Hardhat
After installing the required packages, you can verify the installation by running Hardhat:

```sh
npx hardhat
```

#### Step 4: Compile the Project
To ensure everything is set up correctly, try compiling your project:

```sh
npx hardhat compile
