---
title: "Glossary"
description: "Find explanations for key terms and definitions"
tags: ["zksync", "sdks", "zksync era sdk", "ethereum", "era network", "glossary"]
navigation: false
---

Familiarize yourself with important terminology to better understand the documentation and enhance your development process.

### ZKsync Era
ZKsync Era is a Layer 2 scaling solution for Ethereum, utilizing zk-rollup technology to enable scalable and low-cost
transactions while maintaining the security and trust of the Ethereum blockchain.

### ZK-Rollup
A type of Layer 2 scaling solution that bundles multiple transactions into a single batch and generates a
cryptographic proof (known as a zero-knowledge proof) that is submitted to the Ethereum mainnet. This process increases
throughput and reduces fees.

### Layer 2 (L2)
A secondary framework or protocol that is built on top of an existing blockchain system (Layer 1). Layer 2 solutions
aim to improve the scalability and efficiency of the underlying blockchain.

### Layer 1 (L1)
The base layer or main blockchain architecture, such as the Ethereum mainnet, which handles all transaction
validations and security.

### SDK (software development kit)
A collection of software tools, libraries, documentation, and code samples that enable developers to create
applications for a specific platform.

### dApp (Decentralized Application)
An application that runs on a decentralized network, such as Ethereum, utilizing smart contracts to function without a
central authority.

### ERC-20
A widely-used standard for creating fungible tokens on the Ethereum blockchain. It ensures that tokens can be traded,
transferred, and managed consistently across different platforms and applications.

### ERC-721
A standard for creating non-fungible tokens (NFTs) on the Ethereum blockchain. NFTs are unique digital assets that
can represent ownership of real-world items, digital art, collectibles, and more.

### ERC-1155
A multi-token standard that supports both fungible and non-fungible tokens within a single contract, offering more
flexibility and efficiency in managing various types of assets.

### ZKsync Sepolia Explorer
A block explorer specifically for the ZKsync Era on the Sepolia testnet, providing detailed information about
transactions, blocks, and addresses on the network.

### Bun
A fast JavaScript runtime and package manager compatible with Node.js packages, designed to improve the performance
and developer experience for building JavaScript applications.

### Ethers.js
A library for interacting with the Ethereum blockchain, providing a comprehensive and straightforward API for
developers to integrate Ethereum-based functionalities into their applications.

### Telemetry
The process of collecting and transmitting data from remote or inaccessible points to an IT system in a different
location for monitoring and analysis.

### PATH
An environment variable in Unix-like operating systems and Windows, specifying a set of directories where executable
programs are located.

### Shell configuration file
A script file that initializes variables and settings for a shell session, such as `.bashrc` for Bash or `.zshrc` for Zsh.
