---
title: Introduction
description: Overview of account functionalities in the ZKsync Python SDK.
tags: ["web3", "blockchain", "zksync", "accounts"]
---

The ZKsync Python SDK offers a comprehensive suite of tools to manage accounts and perform various operations on the
ZKsync network. This includes creating wallets, signing transactions, verifying signatures, and interacting with smart contracts.

### Key Features

- **Wallet Management:** Create and manage wallets using private keys.
- **Transaction Signing:** Sign transactions using EIP712-typed data, ensuring secure and verifiable transactions.
- **Signature Verification:** Verify signed transactions to ensure authenticity and integrity.
- **Smart Contract Interaction:** Deploy and interact with smart contracts using custom signing logic.

### Core Components

1. **Wallet**
   - A class that facilitates the creation of wallets from private keys, interaction with ZKsync and Ethereum nodes,
   and managing account balances.

2. **sign_typed_data**
   - Method to sign EIP712-typed ZKsync transactions, ensuring standardized and secure transaction formatting.

3. **verify_typed_data**
   - Method to verify the signed EIP712-typed ZKsync transactions, ensuring that the transactions are authentic and
   have not been tampered with.

### Example Usage

Creating a wallet from a private key and interacting with the ZKsync network:

```python
from zksync2.signer.eth_signer import PrivateKeyEthSigner
from eth_account import Account
from zksync2.module.module_builder import ZkSyncBuilder

account = Account.from_key("PRIVATE_KEY")
zksync_web3 = ZkSyncBuilder.build("ZKSYNC_NETWORK_URL")

chain_id = zksync_web3.zksync.chain_id
signer = PrivateKeyEthSigner(account, chain_id)
```

Signing a typed data transaction:

```python
from zksync2.core.types import TxFunctionCall

func_call = TxFunctionCall(
    chain_id=chain_id,
    nonce=nonce,
    from_=account.address,
    to=saccount.address,
    gas_limit=0,
    gas_price=gas_price,
)
signed_message = signer.sign_typed_data(func_call.tx)
```

Verifying a signed transaction:

```python
is_valid = signer.verify_typed_data(signed_message, func_call.tx)
print("Signature valid:", is_valid)
```
