---
title: Introduction
description: Manage accounts and sign transactions in zksync-ethers.
tags: ["zksync", "account management", "wallet creation", "transaction signing", "cryptocurrency", "ethereum"]
---

`zksync-ethers` exports the following classes that can sign transactions on ZKsync:

- `Wallet` class is an extension of the `ethers.Wallet` with additional ZKsync features.
- `EIP712Signer` class that is used to sign `EIP712`-typed ZKsync transactions.
- `Signer` and `L1Signer` classes, which should be used for browser integration.
- `VoidSigner` and `L1VoidSigner` classes, which are designed to allow an address to be used in any API that accepts
a `Signer`, but for which there are no credentials available to perform any actual signing.
- `SmartAccount` which provides better support for account abstraction. There are the following factory classes:
  - `ECDSASmartAccount`: uses a single ECDSA key for signing payload.
  - `MultisigECDSASmartAccount`: uses multiple ECDSA keys for signing payloads.

## Overview

The account management system in `zksync-ethers` aims to solve the complexities associated with handling keys, signing
transactions, and performing additional operations on behalf of an account. This system provides a robust and secure
way to manage accounts, ensuring seamless interaction with the ZKsync network.

### Why use these classes?

These classes provide essential functionalities to interact with the ZKsync blockchain, making it easier to manage
accounts, sign transactions, and integrate with web applications. They offer:

- **Security**: Ensures that private keys are securely managed and transactions are signed safely.
- **Convenience**: Simplifies the process of creating and managing accounts, especially with features like account
abstraction and multi-signature support.
- **Compatibility**: Extends existing classes from `ethers.js`, making it easier to integrate with existing projects.

### `Wallet`

The `Wallet` class in `zksync-ethers` extends the `ethers.Wallet` class, providing additional methods specific to
ZKsync. It allows you to create and manage wallets, sign transactions, and interact with the ZKsync network seamlessly.

### `EIP712Signer`

The `EIP712Signer` class is used to sign `EIP712`-typed ZKsync transactions, ensuring that transactions comply with
the EIP-712 standard for typed data.

### `Signer` and `L1Signer`

These classes should be used for browser integration, enabling seamless interaction with web3 wallets like
MetaMask. They extend the basic signer functionalities to support the ZKsync-specific operations.

### `VoidSigner` and `L1VoidSigner`

These classes are designed to allow an address to be used in any API that accepts a `Signer`, but without credentials to
perform any actual signing. They are useful for scenarios where you need to represent an account without exposing its
private keys.

### `SmartAccount`

The `SmartAccount` class provides better support for account abstraction, allowing for more advanced account
management features. There are factory classes for creating instances of `SmartAccount` with different signing methods.

#### `ECDSASmartAccount`

Uses a single ECDSA key for signing payloads.

#### `MultisigECDSASmartAccount`

Uses multiple ECDSA keys for signing payloads.
